Inkulinati review – deep and daft tactical play

A rare balance of playfulness and genuine strategic depth, plucked from the margins of history.

Medieval marginalia strategy game Inkulinati holds the unique honour of being the only game to make me lament, out loud: "Oh no, he's not in my butt range." Overwhelmed in number, I was hoping to force a minotaur-esque beast on the opposing army to take a nap (and skip their turn) by using my rabbit swordsman to moon them. This is, I promise you, very serious tactics, and arguably the heart of Inkulinati: thoughtfully tactical, and uncompromisingly absurd.

So rabbits have the helpful turn-skipping debuff of mooning their opponents. Foxes steal resources from their targets. Devils, naturally, set fires. And that's before you get to the less coherent creatures. It's the weird and wonderful world of "things people drew in the margins of manuscripts hundreds of years ago", weaponised.

I spent most of my time with Inkulinati's Journey Mode, a single-player campaign divided into acts where each notch on the road is a different kind of battle, or event. It's easiest to explain how combat works with the most straightforward type of battle in Inkulinati: beast battles. It's your army of (up to) five versus the enemy army, and the first to eliminate the other wins - unless an apocalypse snares you both.
Here's an Inkulinati trailer to show it in action.

With its small health pools, smaller damage pools, and round-limiting apocalyptic threats, play in Inkulinati requires intentional turn taking and positioning to get the chaos desired. Each side takes it in turns to play one unit - who can move within their range, and then act, before going to sleep. If all of one side's units are asleep, then the other side just keeps playing. With no set turn order, there's no way of knowing who plans to act next, and you have to prioritise carefully: who is in the biggest risk in their current position? Can I put them to sleep? Can I kill them? Can I shove them out of the way? Or better: can I shove them off the map, or into encroaching fire?

There is a very real - and entirely intentional - strategy in that 'pushed' characters simply slide along until they encounter the first empty space in that direction. If there is no empty space, they slide right off the battlefield, squealing as they go. There is great joy in lining up units and obstacles for a tactical shove (except, of course, when it happens at my expense, in which case it's cheating, and terrible.) 

The two other kinds of battle give away what is particularly unique about Inkulinati: you aren't playing as an army of odd little creatures; you're playing as the person drawing them. So in Tiny vs Beast battles, in addition to your army of beasts, you have a Tiny Inkulinati, like a little marginaliasona, equipped with their own special actions. You draw new units, pen in hand, or swipe enemies off the map, or crush them under your fist - but these actions are limited to the area around your Tiny, and if they get killed, that's the fight over.

There's a consistent sense throughout the game of real people having fun, the idea of the characters playing the game who aren't you at the computer. It's the celebration of that very human desire to doodle in the margins, and to imagine strange and delightful things, but there's also a spirit of 'yes and' in the dialogue that makes it feel like all your opponents and shopkeepers and event characters are just another person playing game master. They're playing Dante, they're playing tiny armies, and they're playing the shopkeeper who can be bribed with cookies. Jokes can wear down over time, but there's something affectionate in the suggestion of why people play competitive games together that sustains Inkulinati's tone beyond the rabbit butts. 

Each act ends with a duel: your Tiny versus another, with their own special abilities, and their own willingness to bump you off the map. There's also a dedicated duels mode from the starting menu, where you can customise battlefields and hazards to do battle with an assembly of pre-built armies, but without someone to hotseat with, I preferred the campaign for my AI battling.

As you go through the campaign, you start off with an army of three, and expand your selection from battle rewards and shops, along with passive abilities and new hand actions for healing and harming. Each creature has its own unique tactical benefit - you can spot general purposes that repeat across the board, like ranged fighters or spearmen, but your axe-throwing devil that inflicts bleeding and breathes fire holds a very different role in your party to the combination healing-and-bomb-throwing bowl of beans on legs. New types of creature are gated behind experience, and I consistently found that I never unlocked anything I hadn't faced as an enemy first. This is narratively tidy - like facing them in battle gives you the idea to draw them - but sometimes frustrating, as some creatures are their own best tactical counter. 

Being in Early Access, balance is a work in progress. I found myself picking the smartly dressed donkey bards every time I could for their huge area-of-effect forced nap, and dreading seeing one on the enemy side knowing my army could be knocked out every other round. Damage over time effects are also quite aggressively tuned, and while some can be played with - a plagued unit is at least free biowarfare until it goes down - others simply burn through units faster than they can be useful, or replaced. That said, neither of these things are game breaking, because cheating death is a resource in Inkulinati.

While not complex, its resource exchange is one of the things that keeps me in Journey Mode rather than skipping straight to the duels option from the start menu. Drawing the same creatures over and over again accrues boredom, an additional cost penalty to draw. A poorly chosen army or a bad route through an act can leave you ill-equipped for a duel, but in the same way you can trade gold or health or prestige in an event for some other boon, you can trade a writing quill at the point of death. Boredom goes down, and you can call a rematch - or move on, without the rewards of battle. Going back into a fight you might lose is one more tactical exchange: do I want to risk snapping more quills on the rewards of this fight now, or save them for a later fight that might not come? Is it worth paying that price just to whittle down the cost of my army?

Inkulinati is a confident strategy game, even if that comes at overshooting the balance at times. Its celebration of daft joy, dedicated aesthetic and sense of humour go hand in hand with thoughtful and strategic battles, with neither undermining the other. It's an achievement to make something that feels so playful without obscuring the tactical work underneath. Inkulinati looks to spend a year in Early Access, where they'll be expanding on the beasts, masters, and battlefields that are already present, adding online multiplayer, and adjusting balance, but if it never changed from the game I've already been playing, I'd still be happy as a clam - or maybe a man-eating snail. 



Season: A Letter to the Future review - a thoughtful premise with some minor snags

An intimite, mindful story of journalling what matters hits a few small bumps in the road.

Do you keep a journal? I used to. Initially, I tipped all my kid-shaped thoughts into a book with citrus-scented pages, and then my teenage dreams and devastations fell into a navy diary with golden trim and a flimsy lock. Several years later, I moved on to blogging and learned, very much the hard way, not to blast every waking thought and irritation onto the internet.

My journal was a confidante. Sometimes, a therapist. But with every other tangent and run-on sentence - some things never change, I guess - it's hard to imagine them being interesting to anyone in years to come. It was not, and never will be, an anthropological artefact to house the sights, sounds, and souls of a dying civilisation.

That's what Estelle set out to create, though. Unsettled by a portentous dream, her people prepare for the changing season, a poetic phrase that marks the end of the world; well, the end of the world as these people know it, anyway. But even though the fine folk of Caro are nestled high up in the clouds and safe from the turmoil below, Estelle wants to do more than sit and accept the season's end this time. Instead, she wants to archive the current season to inform and educate those in the seasons yet to come.
Here's a story trailer for Season: A Letter to the Future to give you an idea.

And so begins Season: a Letter to the Future, a gentle, melancholic adventure that sees Estelle leave Caro and explore the world beneath it, overwhelming her senses with sights, sounds, and sensations she's never felt before. Armed with a polaroid camera, Estelle snaps anything she finds noteworthy - you're the judge of what is and isn't interesting - and pops it into her journal. The same goes for sound clips; with a mic and recorder, she can tape intriguing soundscapes and magically embed those in her notes. She's also a skilled artist, too, able to sketch monochrome facsimiles of the many stunning vistas she encounters.

Without knowing what, exactly, happens at a season's end, it's up to you to decide what may interest the scientists that happen upon your journal in centuries to come. Will there be birds when the world ends? I don't know; maybe we should include a snippet of birdsong, just in case? And what about rain? The sweet sound of chittering monkeys? The gentle hum of the wind-swept bamboo and these enchanting wind chimes? You won't be able to archive it all - though there'll be "special" pages for certain events and discoveries, you'll mostly have a single double spread to record all your keepsakes and nothing more. That means it's up to you to play curator, too. 

Maybe it's because of the orange-scented pages of my youth, but the journaling feature enchanted me, particularly when you unlock additional statements and stickers to adorn your journal with. I adored assessing my collection, carefully adding and discarding my selections for what, exactly, I think would be most important to retain. I'm not a big fan of shoehorning in multiplayer features for the hell of it, but would be so wonderful to sneak a peek at other players' journals at some point; even though we may share some snapshots and scribbles, I imagine every page will be arranged a little differently, uniquely personalised to the individual who curated it.

As a surprisingly linear adventure, it's difficult to talk much about Estelle's journey without giving something important away, and as her story is essentially as long or as brief as you want it to be - you can belt through it and be done within a few hours, or savour each new environment and scour every inch of it for days - I imagine there may be some people or places you could miss entirely and complete the game never knowing that they existed. Even playing sedately (I clocked up ten hours), I appear to have skipped a handful of key keepsakes. That's not for lack of trying; Season's lush world is stuffed with secrets, both good and bad, and I was unable to resist the call to uncover them all, trying to puzzle together the people's curious spirituality and strange singing flora as I did so. 

You'll sail through the alien landscapes on your bicycle, the wind whipping around your ears as you soak up the world. The cycling mechanic rarely felt fluid, though; even with adaptive triggers and haptic feedback, cycling can feel cumbersome, and Estelle only has to graze a pebble to stop the bike in its tracks entirely, making transversal a bumpy, frustrating affair - particularly if you're in a rush.

I also experienced a little trouble with assets, too, as for the latter half of the game, Estelle's sketches were blocky and blurred, as if they hadn't loaded in properly. The same goes for the map, both the in-world ones and the sketched copy; by the time I was halfway through the region, they were all unreadable. 

I ended with as many questions as I had when I started, too, but I don't blame developer Scavengers for that. Estelle's world unravels with every person you meet and every new place you explore, and as the curator of your own adventure, you're ultimately in charge of what you take away from this experience. There'll be choices; some will feel inconsequential, and others anything but. It's a shame, then, that despite what seems to be multiple endings, there's no way to replay unless you're willing to purge your original save file and start completely from scratch. Something, after hours of painstaking journal management, I am not.

These are small irritations, though, in an otherwise delightful adventure, a journey not just of essential documenting and archiving, but of self-discovery, too. I enjoyed slowly getting to know Estelle and her new friends, even if so many questions still lingered by the time the credits rolled.

You'll learn not only about what's important to Estelle, the people of this season, and the people that have come before them, but also what's important to you in your season, too. Every day of being you has led you to this very place; every choice, every decision, every bereavement, every mistake. When all that's left is you, a journal, and a handful of random keepsakes, what memories would you fight to keep alive? 



Forspoken review - a slow burner that's not without its charms

Forspoken takes it time to get over a wobbly start, but there's something worthwhile here amongst the noise. 

Forspoken doesn't leave a great first impression. The restrictive opening chapters, poor pacing, and that PS5 demo do it no favours, and things didn't click until the campaign was nearly over. I might've stopped sooner on a casual playthrough - but I'm glad I saw it through. Once things did click, I couldn't turn away, and since Forspoken isn't a long action-RPG it is at least one worth sticking with once you start - this is the type of game where you won't always find the smoothest journey, but the build-up eventually pays off.

Playing as Frey Holland, Forspoken begins with a depressing opening chapter that makes her rough upbringing immediately evident. Soon enough, she's transported into a strange fantasy land called Athia with no way home, paired with a wisecracking bracelet called Cuff. Forspoken doesn't open up for several chapters, but once it does, you'll confront the four Tantas, a powerful group of matriarchs that rule each of Athia's regions. Once benevolent sorceresses, they've each succumbed to madness and terrorise this land, leaving us to hunt them down.

Following a rather simplistic stealth mission, Frey's soon free to explore Cipal, a central medieval city that serves as your hub and humanity's last hope. It's a refuge safe from an ever-spreading corruption long called the Break, which affects everything it touches except Frey. With the wildlife and corrupted humans ready to kill on sight, each region presents its own challenges, and Frey doesn't need conventional weaponry.
Here's Digital Foundry running the technical rule over Forspoken's PS5 demo.

Armed with magical spells, Frey's moveset mostly sticks to ranged attacks, backed up by support magic like binding enemies with weeds to slow them. Defeating a Tanta grants new ability sets that you can quickly swap between mid-battle, and spells are upgradeable through their respective skill trees. Slashing through these corrupted foes with Tanta Sila's melee abilities was a particularly satisfying highlight. In some respects, combat feels like a natural extension of Luminous' previous game, Final Fantasy 15, but this isn't another road trip with the boys. Frey travels alone, switching out spells instead of weapons, yet basic combat remains distinctly familiar. Running up to enemies across Athia's open world, pulling off real-time combos remains stylish, and that feeling only grows upon obtaining new abilities

That's somewhat let down by the controls, though. I kept instinctively wasting support magic spells by pressing the left trigger, thinking it'd help aim my shots. Instead, you'll fire automatically at an enemy you've locked onto with R3, which I eventually memorised, but this isn't intuitive. Giving me menus mid-battle to choose spells feels clunky, though you can activate automatic spell switching to replace spells currently in cooldown. 

What will undoubtedly prove divisive is the dialogue, but it's not the spoken disaster some assume. Frey's new to this world, she's suddenly taking down monsters with spells; who wouldn't feel excited, scared, or some combination of both? What seems like an over-the-top reaction is often reasonable, even if it borders on Whedonspeak. That said, Cuff's quippy combat dialogue gets annoying fast, attempting to add a light touch in ways that wouldn't feel out of place in a Marvel movie. Like all comedy, that's subjective, but I'm not a fan. Thankfully, you can minimise his voice lines in the settings, and once I did that I didn't look back.

Despite those problems, there's a few moments where I enjoyed the duo's banter, and Cuff's not the worst company when exploring Athia. From the heavy forests of Junoon to Visoria's great plains, there's a ruined beauty to this open world and plenty of things to do. Frey can take shelter and craft items across different refuges, photograph specific landscapes, and even befriend the Tantas' familiars (magical cats). Labyrinths offer a short dungeon packed with a mini-boss, while events like Flashbacks and Elimination add different twists to combat sequences, like killing all foes in a set time. Accessibility options like custom button mapping, adjustable text sizes, and colour vision deficiency settings boost this experience further.

Exploration feels energetic thanks to Frey's 'magic parkour,' used to speed through environments quickly and dodge attacks. Traversal across Athia feels nice, but there's a more significant problem. You've got all these events across an open world and it rarely feels more meaningful than map padding. Labyrinths often hide interesting lore, but otherwise, I just didn't care and focused on the main missions. Even then, I struggled to shake my initial impressions. 

Frey, at least, is a great character, even if she's not always the most likeable person. You'll find moments where she seems self-absorbed, inconsiderate, and unwilling to view the bigger picture, but I never hated her. Frey's a loner, and that's a consequence of her awful upbringing; she's spent a long time feeling unloved and discarded. When her entire life gets upended and she's asked to save a world she's never known, the pressure hits.

All together it means Frey is complex, flawed and - even if you don't like her dialogue - she feels human. I enjoyed watching her character develop as she finally learns to let other people in, breaking down those internal walls and realising her self-worth. This isn't perfect though, and the writing has some misses. Luminous giving her a criminal backstory for thefts and gang dealings is a highly questionable choice that feels lazy. Even then, it doesn't stop her from becoming one of the more genuine protagonists I've seen recently, capped off by an emotional ending. 

Unfortunately, this story needs time to get to that ending, and I only felt invested once this campaign was nearly over. The upside is it isn't so bad considering the main story's relatively short. You can beat Forspoken in roughly 12 hours, provided you ignore its side missions and post-game content. A far cry from the 30-40 hours previously promised, though it never feels overly drawn out. In some ways, it's your typical save-the-world premise, but Forspoken equally builds a very personal story about Frey's life, one that ultimately resonates. I was intrigued by the worldbuilding too, and Athia's history before the Break is well documented. You'll find diary entries detailing the fates of each region's residents, a war long passed, and more. Plenty to take in, though these can be easily missed.

What you won't find is an exploration of black culture comparable to, let's say, Marvel's Spider-Man: Miles Morales. Instead, Forspoken goes to great pains in highlighting classism, and that's especially prominent in an early side mission. Frey's given a tour of Cipal by an eager young blacksmith, which goes well until you reach the more affluent upper city. It's immediately apparent that neither of you is welcome by the residents. "What business does someone like that have in this part of the city?" one whispers, while other residents rightfully complain about how the upper city receives better food than them. The class divide gets consistently laid bare, highlighting these tensions well.

What's clear is there are highlights here - I had my doubts going into Forspoken, and I came away pleasantly surprised. Despite misgivings about Frey's backstory and the divisive dialogue, Luminous has created one of the more engaging heroes I've seen for some time, even if she shuns that title. This story takes time to get going, and while the writing doesn't always land, there's plenty to enjoy even if the numerous ups and downs make Forspoken hard to universally recommend. Still, thanks to its robust character development, detailed worldbuilding, and stylish combat, there are elements here that are still worth a look. 



Fire Emblem Engage review - a sideways step for the series that celebrates the classics

Nintendo's long-running fantasy series looks to its rich history for this smart, satisfying turn-based tactical RPG game.

Intelligent Systems has made some bold decisions with Fire Emblem Engage, and I'd argue they've mostly paid off. Diverging from one of this generation's most acclaimed RPGs was always going to be risky, but Engage takes inspiration from older entries while retaining Three House's social mechanics so what's here feels more like a sidestep than the next giant leap. This is an exciting bridge between modern and classic Fire Emblem - one that needs a more enticing story, perhaps, but most importantly there's a robust tactical RPG underneath.

Engage is impossible to assess without comparisons to its predecessors thanks to its premise. 12 of Fire Emblem's most famous protagonists are back for one last adventure, each representing a main entry from a series whose history stretches back over 30 years. Unlike in the 2017 mobile spin-off, Heroes, you aren't directly summoning them into this world. Each lord's spirit is instead housed within an Emblem ring, granting the wielder significant power. As the Divine Dragon Alear, you're tasked with recovering the 12 rings, which form the centre of a new conflict with the Fell Dragon, Sombron.

We're back to a singular narrative in Fire Emblem Engage; there are no branching paths, crucial decisions and not even a humorous response to an inconsequential question. My free time is thankful, yet this also feels like a step back. Engage's story isn't bad by any means; it just lacks that nuance and moral ambiguity which helped Three Houses thrive. Comparatively, events and character motivations are very black-and-white. Tired tropes like an amnesiac protagonist facing an ancient returning evil don't do this any favours, either.

It's often predictable, but Fire Emblem Engage is helped along by some sharp character writing. Alear's garish hairstyle might diminish the dramatic impact of some scenes, yet this doesn't stop them from being a caring, charismatic leader. A strong group of supporting characters reinforces this, too. Some are clearly written to fit a specific personality - the cute one, a fitness fanatic, an alpaca enthusiast, you know the drill - but none of the major players are particularly dull, and I remained invested throughout.

Between each chapter, I'm reminded structurally of the 2012 3DS entry Awakening. You'll traverse an explorable overworld map, choosing the chapter's primary mission, a paralogue for side content, or maybe a quick skirmish to level up your units. Fights at an allied stronghold become a training session instead, and those award bonus EXP to all surviving units like Shadows of Valentia. However, skirmishes are entirely optional, so nothing is impeding you from exploring. 

The support system is back, delivering a more classical take on social bonds.

No matter your pick, Engage doesn't diverge from the combat basics. This is traditional turn-based tactical combat wherein you're eliminating individual commanders or routing enemy forces. Weapons management feels scaled back, thanks to Engage removing weapon and magic tome durability, but staffs remain limited. Battalions are also out, though Emblems more than compensate for this, and mistakes remain reversible by rewinding time.

You'll find some classic touches, too. Select units can be recruited mid-battle if the right person speaks to them, or by completing certain paralogues. After disappearing in Echoes and Three Houses, the weapons triangle returns with a fresh twist. Hitting enemies with the correct weapon now inflicts breaks, which prevents them from counterattacking. Great for picking off individual foes but it cuts both ways, so don't get careless.
Digital Foundry was impressed by the techincal leaps Engage has made over its predecessor.

They're all welcome changes, but what truly elevates Engage's combat are its Emblems. Units paired with a ring can select 'Engage' to channel these ghostly lords, granting them new weapons and skills across several turns, alongside unique abilities that offer distinct tactical advantages. Eirika's Twin Strike uses both a sword and lance to subvert the triangle, while Corrin's Torrential Roar can flood an area to reduce an enemy's evasion. Emblems provide units significant versatility without mandating a full class change or further overstacking an already sizable roster.

One of my highlights of Fire Emblem Engage comes after each fight when Alear can freely explore the battlefield. Chatting with allies offers unique perspectives on what unfolded, self-praise for their performance, or questions about why you've not deployed them recently. Items are scattered about, there's local NPCs, and adoptable animals for your base. Engage's worldbuilding is often subtle but usually sticks the landing, and these segments are a fine showcase for the improved visuals. Everything looks cleaner, the environments are more detailed, and a pleasant soundtrack backs that up. 

Visually this is noticable step forward from Three Houses.

Once you're finished taking in the local sights, you have a choice. Return to the world map and continue fighting or visit The Somniel, a beautiful airborne base best described as Garreg Mach stripped of its school. Activities like fishing and wyvern riding gradually open up, while the Tower of Trials contains Engage's only semblance of online multiplayer. I couldn't test these fully pre-launch , but there's the option to create your own maps and fight another player's army that should help add some appeal beyond the 40 hour campaign.

There's plenty of meat to that campaign too. Support conversations are back, and Alear can increase a unit's support through sharing meals, gift-giving, and during combat. This is often where Engage's character writing shines, giving minor characters their moment, and yes, romance is back. This time, any ally with A-rank support has a special scene. I can't confirm if your choice for Alear's gender changes anything, but some scenes strengthen that existing friendship instead, which is lovely.

Supports extend to Emblems too, but they're disappointingly slim. Usually, there's a short line of dialogue each way, and that's it. However, maxing out bonds unlocks special paralogues, effectively a tribute by recreating key scenes from a lord's life. I won't spoil these, though I enjoyed the self-reflection these moments provide. Crucially, Engage avoids detailing their history in the main story and saves that for these paralogues, making the nostalgia trips optional. For older fans, it feels like reminiscing with an old friend.

Intelligent Systems has crafted a culmination of Fire Emblem's history, presenting a surprising blend that takes clear inspiration from both eras. While I miss the intrigue which made Three Houses' main story so appealing, a compelling cast and sublime tactical gameplay see Fire Emblem Engage through. This is a fine RPG that further innovates an already rich combat system, and while long-term fans will get more from this, newcomers might be inspired to check out the rich history of this strategy series. 



A Space for the Unbound review - a slice of life, and all its pain

Disparate parts pull together to form a beautiful game that's only more potent for its awkward adolescence.

Plenty of indie games deal with anxiety and depression, but few contain such raw and mighty anguish as A Space for the Unbound. Following a group of teenagers through the difficulties of school life and beyond - beyond in space as much as time - it's appropriately awkward at times, rushing over-eagerly in some areas, dawdling for far too long in others and frequently figuring it out as it goes. With that teenage earnestness comes buckets of charm though and, more importantly, a genuine, raw sincerity. A Space for the Unbound feels a lot, and it feels hard, and it's intoxicating as a result.

After a big and frankly traumatic prologue, which concludes with one of the most memorably upsetting first-person sequences I've experienced, A Space for the Unbound settles in as a kind of slice-of-life narrative adventure following Atma, a teenage boy at school in 90s Indonesia. Its setting is a blessing. The rural town you jog around is both quaint and otherworldly, a handful of connected roads featuring the nostalgic everyday - food carts, convenience stalls, a couple of strolling locals - but standing up isolated against the bubblegum pixel-art skyboxes like old Western movie sets, two-dimensional and out of time.
Here's A Space for the Unbound's launch trailer to show it in action.

To many players the familiar waypoints of adolescence - first dates, school reports, Game Boys, parents - will anchor you in a place so specific that it likely feels refreshingly unfamiliar. For Indonesian players specifically there seem to be references aplenty - to traditional music, comfort food, historic festivals - while its more explicitly paranormal elements, of which there are plenty, do the work in unbinding. This is really the heart of it in A Space for the Unbound: familiarity and unreality mixing together, throwing you off, bamboozling you into dropping guard. The way developer Mojiken has managed that across cultures is quite something, making something so specific to one place and time feel so universal, with such panache. 

At times the mundanity, while it serves a purpose in bedding you into the world and lulling you into a kind of dreamlike comfort, can drag. A good chunk of A Space for the Unbound, namely the couple of hours after the prologue, are what you might call storyless. You go to school but your girlfriend wants to bunk off, so you have to complete a few little tasks to find a way off campus. A guy's runaway dog is in the way, chasing a cat up a tree, so you have to complete a few tasks to rescue the cat and catch the dog. You need to bake a cake but there are no ingredients, and on and on. For a little while it can feel directionless, a series of short-term objectives put off by menial tasks, which invariably come in groups of three. Eventually, though, it clicks. 

Early on, things can feel comically slow-paced. Saving a cat from a tree! Going to the movies! Filling out forms at school! Thankfully they do eventually get going - and then some.

A Space for the Unbound's trick is something called Spacedive, a mechanic where Atma, with a magic book, can dive into the minds, or 'hearts', of obstinate people who contrive to get in your way, rearranging thoughts in order to change their mind. Again, this often involves excruciatingly simple puzzles rigorously bound to the rule of three, but gradually they become, if not sophisticated, at least more complex. You'll be diving in and out of people's minds, into minds within minds, into timelines within timelines, collecting objects from the past to put them into sockets into a mind. At its best it's wonderfully playful, too, with combat referencing Street Fighter - you learn it from an arcade cabinet and a wizened, if downtrodden sensei who can't pull himself away - and more Spacedive puzzles having you collect evidence for Ace Attorney-aping courtroom melodramas. 

Along with this you'll collect bottle caps, fill out pages of a mysterious storybook-cum-prophecy, work through a nightmarish obsession with cats, and laugh, if you're much like me. A Space for the Unbound is quietly funny when it wants to be, with dry little one-liners from townsfolk peppering humour at you when least expected. And in many cases you will be deeply, maybe profoundly moved, not least by a shattering climax near A Space for the Unbound's end. This is a desperately sad story, you'll discover - the story itself, I mean, regardless of an ending I won't spoil. It's simply the nature of A Space for the Unbound's world, its gradually swelling, unbearable claustrophobia, the sense of panic, inevitability, resistance, the playing off of comfort and existential danger, the blur of real and unreal. This game is messy, and it gets no less messy as you dive deeper and deeper into it. The mess is the point. This is not tidy subject matter, and there are no tidy answers. But step back to view it as a whole, and it's magic. 

